# Image-forgery-detection

The main goal of digital forensics is to extract data from electronic evidence, process it into actionable intelligence and present the findings for prosecution. All processes utilize sound forensic techniques to ensure the findings are admissible in court. Electronic evidence can be collected from a wide array of sources, such as computers, smartphones, remote storage, unmanned aerial systems, shipborne equipment, and more. 

Following the explosion of social networking services, there has been a monumental increase in the volume of image data. Moreover, the development in image processing software such as Adobe Photoshop has given a rise to doctored images. Such doctored images can be used for malicious purposes such as spreading false information and inciting violence. This image forgery detection project allows users to detect even the slightest signs of forgery in an image. 

Project development and production will be of the best quality; however, the execution quality may be affected due to the limitations of resources such as powerful neural engines and cloud services as well as not very high-end devices to run large datasets. 

Due to the easily available software for tampering images, image manipulation has become quite common. Since the tampered images are non-distinguishable by the naked eye, they are being circulated on various platforms giving rise to rumors and misleading many. This has led researchers to work on various techniques for the detection of manipulated images with improved accuracy. Traditional works on image forgery detection are mostly based on extracting simple features that are specific for detecting some particular type of forgery. Recently, works on forgery detection based on neural networks have proved to be very efficient in detecting image forgery. Neural networks are capable of extracting complex hidden features of an image, thus giving better accuracy. Contrary to the traditional methods of forgery detection, a deep learning model automatically builds the required features, hence it has become the new area of research in image forgery.


Image manipulation has increased in popularity as a result of the software that is readily available for altering photos. Since the altered photographs cannot be distinguished with the human eye, they are spreading on multiple platforms, causing confusion and spreading misinformation. This has inspired researchers to develop a number of methods for the more accurate identification of altered photos. Traditional efforts to detect image forgeries have largely relied on extracting straightforward traits that are tailored for finding a certain kind of fake. Recently, neural network-based forgery detection techniques have proven to be quite effective at spotting fake images. Neural networks may uncover intricate hidden information from an image, improving accuracy.
